README.md, before:

# _Dr. Sillystringz's Factory_

#### _Web application to demonstrate knowledge of MVC and Many-to-Many database relationships_

#### By _**Ash Porter (KirbyPaint)**_

## Description

_The purpose of this web application is to demonstrate knowledge of how MVC concepts tie in to databases, specifically databases with many-to-many relationships, and creating a program that creates and uses this data effectively._  

## Setup/Installation Requirements

### Cloning with Git:
* Open Git Bash, or your preferred terminal
* Navigate to your directory for Git projects (not within an existing project)
* Type the following: `git clone https://github.com/KirbyPaint/Factory.Solution.git`

This program was built with and requires .NET version 5.0.102. You may install the 64-bit version for Windows [using this link](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/thank-you/sdk-5.0.102-windows-x64-installer)  

Once the installation of .NET 5 is complete, you may check that the proper version was installed by opening up Git Bash and typing:  

`dotnet --version`  

Then, open your Git Bash terminal and navigate to:

`C:<filepath the files are installed at>\Factory.Solution`

where "filepath the files are installed at" will be the location you saved your copy of the project at, or alternatively:  

You may navigate to the folder in the project labeled "Factory.Solution".  
Right-click inside the File Explorer window, and in the right-click menu, choose "Open Git Bash Here," or Shift+Right-click and choose "Open Powershell Window Here."  
This will open a Powershell/Git Bash window that is already inside the proper directory.

[Click here for tips on navigating the terminal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/samples/managing-current-location?view=powershell-7.1)

### Configuration File Setup

First, you will need to ensure you navigate into the `\Factory.Solution\Factory` directory. Create a file named `appsettings.json` and paste the following code into the newly created `appsettings.json` file:

```
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Port=3306;database=[DATABASE_NAME];uid=root;pwd=[YOUR PASSWORD];"
  }
}
```

You will then need to make at least TWO changes to the appsettings.json file:  
Where the text says `database=[DATABASE_NAME]`, enter your own database's name, and remove the brackets. If your database was named `my_database` this code will look like `database=my_database`  
Where the text says `pwd=[YOUR PASSWORD]`, enter your own secure password, and remove the brackets. If your password is `SafePassword123` this code will look like `pwd=SafePassword123`  
This ensures that the program will be able to read and write to your own local database.

### Setting Up Local Database



### After everything is set up

Once you have properly navigated to the project directory (`<your directory>\Factory.Solution\Factory`), your appsettings.json file has been created, and your local server has been set up, type:

`dotnet restore`

followed by

`dotnet run`

This will run the web application on a local server. Look for terminal output containing these lines:  

```
Now listening on: http://localhost:5000
Now listening on: https://localhost:5001
Application started. Press Ctrl+C to shut down.
```

Once you see this in the terminal, you will be able to open the web page as a link in your browser. Copy either URL and paste it in the browser. If you choose the `https://localhost:5001` link, the browser will likely attempt to protect you by informing you this site has no certificates. That is true; simply bypass the site's warning, or use the unsecured hyperlink `http://localhost:5000` instead.  

## How To Use The Program

All pages will contain a link back to the Home page.  

## Known Bugs/Issues

__

## Support and contact details

_Discord: @KirbyPaint#0751_

## Technologies Used

_C#, .NET 5, ASP.NET MVC, MySQL and MySQL Workbench, Bootstrap (CSS)_

### License Information

_GNU Public License_

Copyright (c) 2021 **_KirbyPaint_**

Commit message:

update README and test that directions are correct

README.md, after:

# _Dr. Sillystringz's Factory_

#### _Web application to demonstrate knowledge of MVC and Many-to-Many database relationships_

#### By _**Ash Porter (KirbyPaint)**_

## Description

_The purpose of this web application is to demonstrate knowledge of how MVC concepts tie in to databases, specifically databases with many-to-many relationships, and creating a program that creates and uses this data effectively._  

## Setup/Installation Requirements

### Cloning with Git:
* Open Git Bash, or your preferred terminal
* Navigate to your directory for Git projects (not within an existing project)
* Type the following: `git clone https://github.com/KirbyPaint/Factory.Solution.git`

This program was built with and requires .NET version 5.0.102. You may install the 64-bit version for Windows [using this link](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/thank-you/sdk-5.0.102-windows-x64-installer)  

Once the installation of .NET 5 is complete, you may check that the proper version was installed by opening up Git Bash and typing:  

`dotnet --version`  

Then, open your Git Bash terminal and navigate to:

`C:<filepath the files are installed at>\Factory.Solution`

where "filepath the files are installed at" will be the location you saved your copy of the project at, or alternatively:  

You may navigate to the folder in the project labeled "Factory.Solution".  
Right-click inside the File Explorer window, and in the right-click menu, choose "Open Git Bash Here," or Shift+Right-click and choose "Open Powershell Window Here."  
This will open a Powershell/Git Bash window that is already inside the proper directory.

[Click here for tips on navigating the terminal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/samples/managing-current-location?view=powershell-7.1)

### Configuration File Setup

First, you will need to ensure you navigate into the `\Factory.Solution\Factory` directory. Create a file named `appsettings.json` and paste the following code into the newly created `appsettings.json` file:

```
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Port=3306;database=[DATABASE_NAME];uid=root;pwd=[YOUR PASSWORD];"
  }
}
```

You will then need to make at least TWO changes to the appsettings.json file:  
Where the text says `database=[DATABASE_NAME]`, enter your own database's name, and remove the brackets. If your database was named `my_database` this code will look like `database=my_database`  
Where the text says `pwd=[YOUR PASSWORD]`, enter your own secure password, and remove the brackets. If your password is `SafePassword123` this code will look like `pwd=SafePassword123`  
This ensures that the program will be able to read and write to your own local database.

### After everything is set up

Once you have properly navigated to the project directory (`<your directory>\Factory.Solution\Factory`), your appsettings.json file has been created, and your local server has been set up, type:

`dotnet restore`

The program should automatically restore all necessary packages.  

Note: This program does come with a "Migrations" folder, but if that folder is missing, please run the following command:

`dotnet ef migrations add Initial`

If the Migrations folder already exists in the project structure, skip this step and enter this next command:

`dotnet ef database update`

to fully apply the database structure.

Once all of the previous steps are applied, enter the following:

`dotnet run`

This will run the web application on a local server. Look for terminal output containing these lines:  

```
Now listening on: http://localhost:5000
Now listening on: https://localhost:5001
Application started. Press Ctrl+C to shut down.
```

Once you see this in the terminal, you will be able to open the web page as a link in your browser. Copy either URL and paste it in the browser. If you choose the `https://localhost:5001` link, the browser will likely attempt to protect you by informing you this site has no certificates. That is true; simply bypass the site's warning, or use the unsecured hyperlink `http://localhost:5000` instead.  

## How To Use The Program

The program will display a link to create new Engineer entries and new Machine entries. Under both sections, you will be able to create, edit, view, and delete Engineer and Machine entries.  
Under the Engineers section, if you select an individual Engineer's name, you will be taken to their Details page, where you may register a new Machine (if one exists) to that Engineer, Edit their details, or Delete that Engineer.
Under the Machines section, if you select an individual Machine, you are able to see which Engineers are currently licensed to repair that Machine. You are also able to see if the machine is "Currently Operational", by way of a check box. Under the Edit section of the Machine, you are able to configure whether this Machine is currently operational or not.

All pages will contain a link back to the Home page.  

## Known Bugs/Issues

__

## Support and contact details

_Discord: @KirbyPaint#0751_

## Technologies Used

_C#, .NET 5, ASP.NET MVC, MySQL and MySQL Workbench, Bootstrap (CSS)_

### License Information

_GNU Public License_

Copyright (c) 2021 **_KirbyPaint_**
